= Iterated Dynamics
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:experimental:

== New Features in 1.0

See <<_getting_started>>.  See <<_3d_commands>>.

Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.

== Introduction

Introduction.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.

=== Conditions on Use

Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.

=== Getting Started

See <<_fractal_types>>.

Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.

== Fractal Types

Fracal types.  See <<_introduction>>.

Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.

* <<_the_mandelbrot_set>>

Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.

=== The Mandelbrot Set

(type=mandel)

Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.

== "3D" Commands

Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots
of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.
Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of text.  Lots of
text.  Lots of text.
