{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}{\f3\fswiss Helvetica;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\s251\li1080 \ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s253\li360\sb120 
\b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s255\li720 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\snext0 Normal;}{\s2 \f3 \sbasedon0\snext2 Text;}{\s3\li2160\ri720\sb240 \sbasedon0\snext3 Indent;}}{\info{\author Mark C. Peterson}{\creatim\yr1990\mo12\dy30\hr13\min38}
{\revtim\yr1990\mo12\dy30\hr13\min38}{\version1}{\edmins39}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8351}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \ri90\sb240 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} CoordinateBox}}{\f3\fs20  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} coordinate;rectangular;polar;pixel;}}{\f3\fs20  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Coordinate Box}}{\f3\fs20  }{
\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 +} browse:090}}{\f3\fs20  Coordinate Box options  
\par The }{\b\f3\fs20 Coordinate Box}{\f3\fs20  is courtesy of Mark Peterson.  When you have the Coordinate Box checked, a small "coordinate window" constantly displays the current position of your mouse pointer.
\par From the }{\b\f3\fs20 Options}{\f3\fs20  menu you can select the coordinates to display in rectangular (default), polar, or pixel coordinates.
\par }{\b\f3\fs20 Rectangular}{\f3\fs20  coordinates correspond to Cartesian plane.  The coordinates displayed are in absolute units relative to the origin.  Fractint uses these coordinates to form a complex number.  This complex number initializes on
e or more variables in the iterative calculation.  The }{\i\f3\fs20 x}{\f3\fs20  coordinate is used as the }{\i\f3\fs20 real }{\f3\fs20 portion of the complex number and the }{\i\f3\fs20 y  }{\f3\fs20 coordinate as the }{\i\f3\fs20 imaginary }{\f3\fs20 
portion.
\par }{\b\f3\fs20 Pixel}{\f3\fs20  coordinates display the position of a point in terms of the number of pixels, or color dots, relative to the pixel in the upper left-hand corner of the image.  For example, if the image size is 200 x 15
0, then the pixel in the lower right-hand corner of the image is coordinate (199, 149).
\par }{\b\f3\fs20 Polar}{\f3\fs20  coordinates display the position of a point in terms of its distance and angle relative to the origin.  The angle can be in units of }{\b\f3\fs20 degrees}{\f3\fs20  (default), }{\b\f3\fs20 radians}{\f3\fs20 , or }{\b\f3\fs20 
grads}{\f3\fs20 .  Most people are familiar with degrees which divide the circle into 360 }{\i\f3\fs20 degrees}{\f3\fs20 .  Grads divide the circle into 400 }{\i\f3\fs20 grads}{\f3\fs20 .  Radians divide the circle into units of 2 Pi }{\i\f3\fs20 radians}
{\f3\fs20 .
\par 
\par }}