.TH "XFRACTINT" "1" "20.04" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
xfractint \- fractal generation program
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B xfractint [options] [; comments]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I Xfractint
draws a wide variety of fractals.  Xfractint is a port of the IBM PC
program fractint.  Xfractint has online documentation which should be
referenced for most operation information.  Note that the online
documentation is from fractint, and does not always accurately describe
xfractint.  A text version of the online documentation can be generated
by running ``make doc''.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\-display \fIdisplay_name\fR
Specifies the X11 display to use.
.TP 
\-onroot
Indicates the resulting images should appear on the root window.  Note:
rubberband zoom boxes don't work on the root window.
.TP 
\-private
Indicates that xfractint should allocate as many colors as possible in
a private colormap.  Normally xfractint will use 128 colors; this flag will
let you use all 256, but may mess up the colors in other windows.  This
is not necessary if you are using greater than 8\-bit color.
.TP 
\-slowdisplay
Indicates that the machine has a slow display, so the scrolling window
should be updated infrequently.  Use this flag if xfractint hangs on
the title screen.
.TP 
\-fast
Indicates that xfractint should use the faster drawing mode.  Instead of
drawing each pixel immediately, xfractint will save up pixels and then
refresh the screen every 5 seconds.  Depending on your X implementation,
this may make drawing twice as fast.
.TP 
\-disk
Use disk video.  That is, generate the picture in memory instead of to the
screen.  The resulting picture can be saved as a gif file or printer file.
.TP 
\-fixcolors \fInum\fR
Specifies the number of colors to use.  This number must be a power of two.
Also, this number can't be greater than the number of colors available.  And, it can't be greater than 256.
.TP 
\-geometry \fIWxH[{+\-X}{+\-Y}]\fR
This sets the size and position of the image window.  The default is 640x480 pixels.
.TP 
\-share
Indicates that xfractint should share the current colormap.  That is,
xfractint uses as many colors as possible, but doesn't modify the colormap.
This is not necessary with greater than 8\-bit colors.
.TP 
\-simple
Uses simpler keyboard handling.  Use this flag if you wish to debug
xfractint with gdb, or else you may get "(gdb)" repeated infinitely.
.TP 
xxx=yyy
Sets variable xxx to value yyy.  See the online documentation for more
details on the possible variables.
.TP 
@filename
.br 
Loads parameters from the specified file.
.TP 
@filename/groupname
.br 
Reads a named group of parameters from the specified file.
.SH "BUGS"
There are many bugs and things that haven't been implemented.

.TP 
Boundary tracing sometimes locks up.
.TP 
Passes=2 has problems??
.TP 
Symmetry that is offset slightly doesn't always complete the image.
.TP 
The top of the help screens are messed up.  Starting your xterm with
-geometry 80x25 fixes this.

.PP 
Xfractint uses a bizarre (to Unix users) user interface which was
directly copied from the IBM version.
If you don't have the appropriate keys, use the following key mappings:
.nf 
IBM             Unix
F1 to F10       Shift\-1 to Shift\-0
INSERT          I
DELETE          D
PAGE_UP         U
PAGE_DOWN       N
LEFT_ARROW      H
RIGHT_ARROW     L
UP_ARROW        K
DOWN_ARROW      J
HOME            O
END             E
CTL_PLUS        }
CTL_MINUS       {
.fi 
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright 1991 \- 2005 by The Stone Soup Group
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
The original Unix port was done by Ken Shirriff (shirriff@eng.sun.com).
Xfractint was updated to Fractint 19.5 by Tim Wegner (twegner@fractint.org)
under Linux 2.0. Please report updates for other platforms to Tim Wegner.
The current official release is 20.0.
The primary authors of Fractint 20.0 are:
Timothy Wegner         twegner@fractint.org
Jonathan Osuch         josuch@fractint.org
George Martin          ggmartin@compuserve.com
Robin Bussell          robin.b2@ukonline.co.uk
.fi 
